***This is currently an unedited and unformatted brain dump.***

It'll some day hopefully become something closer to an article about how to build and design a system like this.




Building A Secure Remote Voting System For Congress

# Define The Problem

## Describe the problem
While the entire nation is currently trying to stay six feet apart and reduce face to face interactions as much as possible to slow the spread of Covid19 our Congress is meeting in person to keep our nation functioning. While Speaker Pelosi released a letter on April 6th outling new protocols to reduce face to face interaction of members of the House Of Representatives, members of congress are still required to vote in person.

With an average age of nearly 62 in the US Senate and 58 in the House Of Representatives we're putting the leaders of our nation, and a critical group that's required to push forward nation saving legislation at risk. Our government is currently at an unacceptable risk of becoming dysfunction. If the coronavirus was able to spread to enough members of the Senate or the House Of Represenatives we will have no way to react to the rapidly changing world that the COVID-19 pandemic has caused. It's critical at this time we setup a system to enable congress to work fully remotely. Including allowing members of congress to vote remotely.

# Explain the project
Luckily, we actually already have proven solutions to make remote voting for groups like Congress secure, and transparent. Unfortunately, these solutions heavily rely on technology and computer science concepts. Which are topics our congress tends to have a low level of understand of. In this article I'll attempt to outline and explain a possible solution for a remote voting system that could be used by Congress to hold votes securely and transparently using proven technologies. I'll then explain how those technologies are used in a proof of concept system I've already developed.

## Describe the high level technical problems
The most obvious problem faced when designing a remote voting system for a body like congress is that you want to know you're able to trust the results of the vote. In other words, we don't want people to be able to alter votes taking place in Congress, or place votes they're not authorized to.

There are three key points we need to make sure we cover in our design of this remote voting system in order to setup a system where we can be confident that we can track who voted which way, and that their votes haven't been tampered with.

A. If a Senator or Representative is voting from an Internet connected device we want to be sure that we have no doubts that the vote came from the member of congress, and nobody else.
B. We need to know that the way the member of congress voted hasn't been changed in any way.
C. That storage of that voting data must be permanent, and immutable. Or in other words. We must be sure that data cannot ever be changed.

## Describe the existing technology that can be used to solve it
We can use some proven technology to design a system that meets those three points.

To ensure we know we can trust that the person making votes is who they claim to be we can use what's called Asymmetric Encryption. Asymmetric Encryption will allow our system to have the members of congress digitally sign their votes using a public private key pair. The member of congress will have an internet connected device that contains two complicated keys. One that is known publicly which can be used to identify the member of congress, and a private key never leaves their device, and never travels on a network.
Their private key only exists on their device to generate a "signature". The signature is a known value that is encrypted using the private key. If someone knows the public key, and the encrypted message they can decrypt the signature using the publicly known public key, and prove that the signature must have been generated by the member of congress' private key. Thus, ensuring that the vote attached to the signature is indeed from that member of congress.

In addition to knowing that a vote originated from the person the vote is claim to have come from, we also want to be sure that the vote is never tampered with or edited. To do that we can use what's called Hash function in conjunction with the Asymmetric Encryption signature to generate not just a signature that proves who created the vote, but that the content of the vote hasn't been changed.
A hash function is a one way mathematical formula that given the same data will always produce the same result, but you can't produce that data from the outputted result from the hash function. What is most important is that if the input into the hash function is changed even slightly the result will be different. So, we can generate a hash of the digital content of a member's vote, and keep track of the hash. If the member's vote ever doesn't match the hash we know that something was changed. Remember how the Asymmetrical Encryption signature needed a message to be encrypted with the private key. What we can do is make that message that is encrypted the hash value of the vote's digital content.
That would mean if we can validate the signature using the vote content's hash, and the public key of the member of congress placing the vote we'd know that the member of congress did infact place that vote, and that the vote hasn't been tampered with.

Finally, we need to ensure once the vote is placed that it never gets lost or modified. If you're familiar with the concept of Bitcoin there is a technology that Bitcoin runs on top of. It's called Blockchain, and in our solution for remote congress voting we'll be storing votes made by members of congress in a Blockchain. We're doing that for a few reasons, but the biggest reason is that the data stored in a Blockchain is immutable and distributed. So we can be pretty confident that the data of congressional votes will never change once it's stored and because the system is stored in a distributed way we can be pretty sure the content will never be deleted.

## Describe the proof of concept that has been built
With those three design concepts we should be able to setup a system that can track votes and ensure the content is valid, untampered with, and comes from who it claims, and I've done just [that](https://github.com/nathanmentley/RemoteCongress).
It's an open source proof of concept, and isn't read to be run in a production setting, but it proves the using these technologies together can result in a functional system that we can trust to handle congressional voting.

The project has a two parts:
* There is a client app that mimics what each member of congress would run on their local internet connected device. That tool will generate votes, sign them, and send them automatically.
* There is a server that the client app will send votes to, this server will validate the votes, and store them in an immutable blockchain data store. Additionally the server can return votes that have already been cast, and again it'll validate those votes before returning them to ensure the votes are still untampered with.

## Describe what isn't solved, and define the assumptions we're making.
There are a few limitations with this system, and I've designed it with a few assumptions that do prevent a few use cases from being possible. The way each individual votes will be publicly known. Based on how the signatures work, and the need to know who each public key belongs to there isn't a way to support anonymous votes. While this works great for congress where transparency is key, that means we'd never be able to use this system in public elections.

# Explain the next steps

## What needs to be built still
## What conversation needs to be had
## A call to action or some kind
